---
id: 06e5f8b6-ed1d-4906-a6de-ba777d919247
title: Chat Documents
desc: ""
updated: 1643009607956
created: 1615482779857
---

For nearly a year I've been struggling to build a prototype, solo, what I outlined in [Chatting with Glue](https://a9.io/glue-comic).

So I'm making an intermediate prototype ([[theory.subprojecting]]) without the hard parts (privacy, authentication, notifications), using a lightweight realtime database. It'll resemble a chat app but will nominally be a collaborative outliner tool. For meeting notes ([[rethinking-media.better-meetings]]) and such.

Word processing and whiteboarding are the wrong metaphors for shared info accretion during a call. You're always worrying about layout and overwriting the other person's thoughts. Need atomicity.

## A new kind of document

- Why is this better than Slack etc?

  - Infinite threading, inline quotation/embellishment _does matter_, and it matters a ton. It's a whole other mode of thinking (hypothesis)
  - Messages are more malleable/data-like when they're collapsible. Legible more as an outline, a document, a record
    - It doesn't replace Slack, it's another product category
  - Let's find out if it is empirically!

- What if each chat "workspace" originated with a chat message on the homescreen? The homescreen is a private scratchpad and you can share messages and their descendants with people.

- Inline hashtags/mentions are crucial, with autocomplete for them to invite accretion

Copy-paste handling needs to be next-level. Drag and drop. It should be as good as a finder window (a la [[projects.chat-fs]])

Related idea: [[projects.chat-fs]]

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[better-meetings]: better-meetings.md "Better Meetings"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
