---
id: a18ae428-41e5-4773-8cbb-666009704479
title: Text is a design tool
desc: null
updated: 1633501118
created: 1615482779857
---

- On the computer, text is more ergonomic to write than pictures.

- Layouts, pages, and layering are hard

- Roam as design tool

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Twine/Inform7 but for clickable prose UI prototypes when you&#39;re too lazy to draw boxes and buttons in 2d space (figma).<br><br>Model your interfaces by conjuring up the best mental imagery. Not even as a challenge but because you&#39;re lazy and don&#39;t wanna use a mouse. Better on the go?</p>&mdash; Max Krieger (@maxkriegers) <a href="https://twitter.com/maxkriegers/status/1344523062608326656?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">December 31, 2020</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

- Evocative metaphors are a foggy but decent substitute for rich pictures ([[rethinking-media.evocative-writing]])

> The MUSE was, I think, a premonition of Minecraft, with the same sense of open-ended possibility that speaks so powerfully to 14-year-olds today. There was nothing you could imagine that you couldn’t build. ‘A long hall, illuminated by rows of bright torches, with a great throne at one end’ – simple as that. When you bracketed those words with a few simple commands – to create the room, specify its description, link it to other rooms – you had your hall.
> It was just text, but everything was just text. It was intoxicating.

https://aeon.co/essays/before-minecraft-or-snapchat-there-was-micromuse

Literary Machines

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"

[evocative-writing]: evocative-writing.md "Writing as evocation"

[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
